Hello and welcome to this course.
I was delighted to be given
the opportunity to create this course for
frontend masters.
Because I always felt that
custom properties have so
much untapped potential.
So before we start, who's Lea?
So hi, I'm Lea Verou.
My Twitter handle is right there.
Feel free to ping me with any questions.
I'm a CSS Working Group invited expert for
about a decade.
I co-edit several CSS specifications and
have provided input for a lot more.
So I have been actually involved in
a lot of the things we're going to
discuss today.
Awesome this year,
I'm also an elected W3C TAG member.
The W3C TAG is a special
working group within W3C,
which reviews all other proposals to
add new, APIs to the web platform.
My day job is a human-computer interaction
researcher at MIT human-computer
interaction just the fancy
academic term for usability.
My research is centered around
usability in programming languages.
And I've started a bunch
of open source projects and
have reviewed 1000s of pull
requests at this point so
that also colors my perspective about
what kind of code is maintainable.
So what will you need for this course?
A solid understanding of modern CSS is
definitely an important prerequisite.
I'm not going to explain
things like grid and Flexbox.
I kind of expect you to be familiar.
And I expect you to have significant
experience solving problems with CSS so
that you can recognize them.
When I describe these problems and
better solutions to them, a little bit of
Sass would be useful because we're going
to use it in a few parts of the workshop.
But if you don't have any experience
with Sass or any other pre processors,
don't worry about it it's a tiny part.
And for the last section, you will need
a little bit of experience writing
vanilla JS without any frameworks
mainly events and Dom.
But I'm going to go through them so
don't worry if you don't have all
that much experience with JavaScript.
So what are we going to learn.
We are going to learn how to use
custom properties to make our CSS more
maintainable, more extensible,
more robust.
We are going to learn how to create
styling hooks so that other people can
style our components and allow us to still
change everything about them internally.
We will learn how to use custom
properties to create transitions and
animations that were not
visible without JavaScript or
even those that were visible,
but in a much easier way.
And lastly but perhaps most importantly,
how to finally,
cleanly separate style and behavior in
a way that was never possible before.
And along the way,
we're gonna mention a lot of caveats,
gotchas workarounds because
this is a CSS course after all.
So when will you need?
All you will need to follow along
in Is basically a recent Chrome and
the functioning keyboard.
That's about it.
You should open the slide deck.
The link is right there and
you just press the arrow key
to advance through the slides.